DOCSP-34122: Integrations guide (#511)
mongodb/docs-java: source/integrations.txt

.. _spring-framework:

Spring Data
-----------

`Spring <https://spring.io/>`__ is a Java framework that provides infrastructure support
for Java applications. Spring's modules enable aspect-oriented programming, authentication
protocols, inversion of control, and other services to facilitate application development.

Spring offers the Spring Data sub-framework for database access. Spring Data's features include
map-reduce frameworks, cloud-based data services, and an access layer for relational and
non-relational databases. To learn more about the Spring Data project, see `Spring Data
<https://spring.io/projects/spring-data>`__.

Using Spring Data and MongoDB
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`Spring Data MongoDB <https://spring.io/projects/spring-data-mongodb/>`__ allows you to access
MongoDB databases by using a Spring-based programming model. For instructions on using
Spring Data MongoDB to build an application and interact with MongoDB, see the 
`Accessing Data with MongoDB <https://spring.io/guides/gs/accessing-data-mongodb>`__ guide in
the Spring documentation.

You can use Spring Data MongoDB's template API to perform CRUD operations on MongoDB data.

> Additionally, the MongoDB converter allows you to map domain objects to MongoDB documents,

Reviewer: Issue:
From the [style guide entry on terminology](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/terminology/alphabetical-terms/#a):
> Use allow only when discussing permission. Avoid using allow to imply that a program, feature, or product permits a user to do something. Use you can instead. Enables is also acceptable.

Suggestion:

I think replacing "allows" with "enables" would follow the style guide guidance.

Applies to all instances.

.. _java-integrations:

===================
Driver Integrations
===================

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference

.. meta::
   :keywords: java sync, third party, tools, frameworks

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

On this page, you can learn about using tools and frameworks together
with the {+driver-short+} to develop applications.

This page describes the following third-party integrations:

- :ref:`spring-framework`
- :ref:`quarkus-framework`
- :ref:`micronaut-framework`

.. TODO (add after JAVA-3580 is finished):
   - :ref:`graalvm-integration`

.. important::

>    The integrations on this page are not official MongoDB partners.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps we could change language here slightly to say something like:

"The integrations on this page are not officially developed by MongoDB" or
"The integrations on this page are not developed by official MongoDB partners" or
"The open-source integrations listed below are all community-developed and maintained."

To clarify that the integrations themselves are not the partners, but rather are not developed by us / our partners?

.. _spring-framework:

Spring Data
-----------

`Spring <https://spring.io/>`__ is a Java framework that provides infrastructure support
for Java applications. Spring's modules enable aspect-oriented programming, authentication
protocols, inversion of control, and other services to facilitate application development.

Spring offers the Spring Data sub-framework for database access. Spring Data's features include
map-reduce frameworks, cloud-based data services, and an access layer for relational and
non-relational databases. To learn more about the Spring Data project, see `Spring Data
<https://spring.io/projects/spring-data>`__.

Using Spring Data and MongoDB
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Spring Data MongoDB enables you to access MongoDB databases by using a Spring-based programming
model. 

> You can use Spring Data MongoDB's template API to perform the following actions:

Reviewer 2: Spring Data supports a bunch of MongoDB capabilities outside of CRUD. Could we call out that Atlas Search is supported, as well as CSFLE?

- Run CRUD operations on MongoDB data
- Map domain objects to MongoDB documents using the MongoDB converter
- Access MongoDB's GridFS filesystem using the GridFS template

For instructions on using Spring Data MongoDB to build an application and interact with MongoDB, see the 

> `Accessing Data with MongoDB <https://spring.io/guides/gs/accessing-data-mongodb>`__ guide in

Reviewer 2: I don't know how up to date this information is given that there's an open issue asking to upgrade to the latest version of the Spring documentation. Could we link to this page instead in the reference documentation?

[https://docs.spring.io/spring-data/mongodb/reference/mongodb/getting-started.html]

.. _java-integrations:

===================
Driver Integrations
===================

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference

.. meta::
   :keywords: java sync, third party

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

On this page, you can learn about the tools and frameworks available for integration
with the {+driver-short+}.

This page describes the following third-party integrations:

- :ref:`spring-framework`
- :ref:`quarkus-framework`
- :ref:`micronaut-framework`

.. TODO (add after JAVA-3580 is finished):
   - :ref:`graalvm-integration`

.. note::

   MongoDB does not own the tools included on this page.

.. _spring-framework:

Spring Data
-----------

The `Spring <https://spring.io/>`__ Java framework offers flexible third-party libraries,
streamlined code features, and performance improvements to facilitate application
development.

Spring Data, a Spring umbrella project, focuses on database access for 
Spring-powered applications. Several Spring Data features simplify data access, including
a high-level interface for database interaction and database query generation.

> Using Spring Data and MongoDB

Reviewer: Suggestion:

From reading this heading, I expected to see either installation instructions or an example. 

I think it could be better to omit this heading or to find an example that demonstrates how to use Spring Data MongoDB and link to it.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> `Spring Data MongoDB <https://spring.io/projects/spring-data-mongodb/>`__ is one of the
> modules included under the Spring Data umbrella. This module supports the use of MongoDB
> databases during Spring application development. Additionally, Spring Data MongoDB reduces

Reviewer: Suggestion:

I think that the first sentence under the heading "Using Spring Data and MongoDB" should include the answer the question "How do I use Spring Data and MongoDB".

Also, I think there's less chance of controversy when the benefits are objective rather than subjective. In this case, I think "reduce MongoDB API knowledge required" is more subjective than something like "use the Spring based programming model to access MongoDB".

```suggestion
`Spring Data MongoDB <https://spring.io/projects/spring-data-mongodb/>`__ allows you to access MongoDB databases by using a Spring based programming model.
```

the boilerplate code and MongoDB API knowledge required for MongoDB database access. The
module offers the following features:

- ``MongoTemplate`` helper class that implements the ``MongoOperation`` interface.
  This interface provides methods such as ``find()``, ``insert()``, and ``update()``
  to perform MongoDB operations.
- Exception translation that allows for custom, portable exception handling code
  without losing error information provided by the {+driver-long+}.
- Converter, called ``MappingMongoConverter``, to map domain objects to MongoDB documents.
  You can also write a custom converter.
- ``GridFsOperations`` and ``ReactiveGridFsOperations`` interfaces for accessing

>   the GridFS filesystem.

Reviewer: Suggestion:

I think this list repeats information in the link and includes method/class names that don't help a reader understand them since there are no direct links or examples. I think it could be better just to summarize what seem like the two or three most important features at a high level:

E.g.
"Use the Template API to perform CRUD operations on MongoDB and map domain objects to MongoDB documents."

   - :ref:`graalvm-integration`

.. important::

   The integrations on this page are not official MongoDB partners.

.. _spring-framework:

Spring Data
-----------

`Spring <https://spring.io/>`__ is a Java framework that provides infrastructure support
for Java applications. Spring's modules enable aspect-oriented programming, authentication
protocols, inversion of control, and other services to facilitate application development.

Spring offers the Spring Data sub-framework for database access. Spring Data's features include
map-reduce frameworks, cloud-based data services, and an access layer for relational and
non-relational databases. To learn more about the Spring Data project, see `Spring Data
<https://spring.io/projects/spring-data>`__.

Using Spring Data and MongoDB
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`Spring Data MongoDB <https://spring.io/projects/spring-data-mongodb/>`__ allows you to access
MongoDB databases by using a Spring-based programming model. For instructions on using
Spring Data MongoDB to build an application and interact with MongoDB, see the 
`Accessing Data with MongoDB <https://spring.io/guides/gs/accessing-data-mongodb>`__ guide in

> the Spring documentation.

Reviewer: Suggestion:
Related to [this comment](https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/511/#discussion_r1486783015), I think the placement of "how to use this" ("For instructions...") between the "what it is" and "what are the features" parts of the information can interrupt the flow.

I think ordering the info the following way could flow better:

"What it is"
"What are the features"
"How to use this"

Applies to all the sections.

Quarkus
-------

The `Quarkus <https://quarkus.io/>`__ Java framework supports the development of microservices
and serverless systems. Quarkus is native to `Kubernetes <https://kubernetes.io/>`__, a platform
that manages the deployment of containerized applications.

Quarkus' features include an interactive developer interface, live coding, and container-first application
development that reduces the memory usage of Java applications.

Using Quarkus and MongoDB
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Quarkus provides a MongoDB client for MongoDB data access. For instructions on how to use
the ``quarkus-mongodb-client`` extension to connect to MongoDB, see the `Using the MongoDB Client
<https://quarkus.io/guides/mongodb>`__ guide in the Quarkus documentation.

> Use the MongoDB client extension to access the following features:

Reviewer: Suggestion:

I think it could be helpful to stay consistent in each section with whether imperative mood (either using it or not using it) is used when presenting the features in each section. I think either way (Spring Data "You can use..." or Quarkus "Use the ...") works.
